Tractability
I've got four party invites to deliver to four friends,
and I've worked out the best way of delivering them.
I calculated how long it would take to visit:
The next section transitions very rapidly so could be difficult to read.
The names Alice, Bob, Carol and David have been shortened to
persons A,B,C and D
friend A then B then C then D;
or B, A, C, D;
or A, B, D, C;
or B, A, D, C;
or A, C, B, D.
end of section
[sigh] You get the idea.
With four friends there are 24 orders I would have to try.
I considered inviting my fifth friend,
but that would mean there was 120 different combinations I'd have to try,
so she didn't get invited.
I actually have 35 friends,
but to invite them all I'd have to try
ten thousand million million million
million million million (rounded)
different combinations.
In fact, if a dinosaur had started this calculation
using the fastest computer currently available,
added 'currently' in the above line for clarity
it would still only be a fraction of a percent
complete today.
Also, by the time the sun dies out,
it will still only be 1% complete.
The trouble is that there are many important problems
in Computer Science that are difficult,
and nobody's found out a good way of programming,
changed 'there is' to 'there are' in above line
such as: cutting shapes out of material;
loading freight onto trucks in the optimal way;
working out timetables;
even solving large Sudoku puzzles.
not sure what was said between 'Solving' and 'Sudoku',
'large' is my best guess
It's also a good thing that these problems exist,
here's an example:
Most internet security is based on Security Keys,
which are a product of two large prime numbers,
which will take billions of years
to figure out the factors of.
If you don't believe me, try this:
The number I'm displaying on the screen
is a product of two prime numbers.
If you can work out what the
two factors of this number are,
send us a message, and we will send you a free T-shirt.
Computer Scientists don't even know if there are
better ways of finding the optimal solution.
In the meantime the focus is just on calculating
good enough solutions.
Or, you could just invite four friends to your party.
Tractability